you
this lecture is about the contextual
text mining context your text mining is
related to multiple kinds of knowledge
that we mined from text data as I'm
showing here it's related to the top of
the mining because it can make topics
associated with context like time or
location and similarly they can make an
opinion mining more contextualized
making the opinions connected to context
and it's related to text based of
prediction because it allows us to
combine not have data with texted out to
derive sophisticated predictors for the
prediction problem so more specifically
why are we interested in context your
text mining well that's first because
texts often has rich context information
and this can grow that direct the
context such as metadata and also
indirect the tech context so the
director context that can include the
metadata such as time location Arthur's
and source of the text of data and they
almost always available to us
interactive text context refers to
additional data related to the metadata
so for example from authors we can
further obtain additional context such
as social network of the other or the
author's age and such an information is
not in general director related to the
text yet throw the author so we can
connect them there could be also other
text data from the same source as this
one so the other context there can be
connected with this text as well so in
general any related data can be regarded
as context so there could be remotely
rated contacts and so what's the use
wise text context useful well context
that can be used to partition text data
in many interesting ways it can almost
allows the partitioning text there are
in a few ways as we need and this is
very important because this allows us to
interesting comparative analysis it also
in general provides
meaning to the discoverer topics if we
associate text with context
so here's illustration of how context
can be regarded as interesting ways of
partitioning of text data so here I just
show some research papers published in
different years different venues and
different conference names here listed
on the bottom like to see Gaia or ACL
etc now such text there are can be
partitioning many ways because we have
context so the context here just
includes time and the conference menus
and but perhaps we can include some
other variables as well but let's see
how we can partition the running system
ways first we can treat each paper as a
separate unit so in this case a paper ID
and each paper is has its own context
it's independent but we can also treat
all the papers written in 1998 as one
group and this is only possible because
of the availability of time and we can
partition data in this way this would
allow us to compare topics for example
in different years similarly we can
partition the data based on the menus we
can get all the cigar papers and compare
the newspapers with the rest or compare
cigar papers with kdd vapors with Ser
papers we can also petition the data to
obtain the papers written by authors in
the US and that of course uses
additional context of the authors and
the this would allow us to then compare
such a subset with another set of papers
written by also seeing other countries
or we can obtain a set of papers about
the text mining and this can be compared
with papers about another topic and note
that these partitions can be also
infected with each other to generate
even more complicated repetitions and so
in general this enables discovery
of knowledge associated with different
the context as needed and in particular
we can compare different contexts and
this often gives us a lot of useful
knowledge for example comparing topics
over time we can see trends of topics
comparing topics in different contexts
it can also reveal differences about the
two contacts so there are many
interesting questions that require
context perhaps mining here I did some
very specific ones for example what
topics have been gaining increasing
attention reasoning data mining research
now to answer this question obviously we
need to analyze text in the context of
time right so time is a context in this
case is there any difference in the
responses of people in different regions
to the event to any event so this is a
very broad and then subscription in this
case of course location is the context
what are the common research interests
of two researchers in this case authors
can be the context is there any
difference in the research topics
published by others in the USA and those
outside now in this case the context
would included the answers and there are
affiliation and location so this goes
beyond just the author himself or
herself we need to look at the
additional information connected it to
the other is there any difference in the
opinions about the topic expressed on
one social network and another in this
case the social network of others and
the topic can be the context other
topics in news data that are correlated
with sudden changes in stock prices in
this case we can use a time series such
as with stock prices as context what
issues mattered in the 2012 presidential
campaign or presidential election now in
this case time series again as context
so as you can see the list can go on and
on basically context your text mining
can have many applications